# Idea codefundo
My team project is to develop an AI that can save people's lives in the aftermath of severe floods and cyclones.
PROJECT IDEA : The idea is to develop a learning program that collects the geographical data of a particular region that is prone to cyclones or floods such as analyzing the vegetation coverage,slope,height from sea level etc and using it earmark the zones which are more susceptible to flooding after comparing with past records. This AI will function simultaneously with an app that would be directly connected to the AI via a wireless network.
HOW IT WORKS : Once the Ai has earmarked the red alert zones,it will retrieve the contacts of all volunteers from its memory and using the location of their mobile assign them to the nearest zone. Also since the AI has already predicted the red alert zones,it can also navigate the public to the nearest safest zone using the map AI. Simultaneously we can put up some safety measures or 'WHAT-TO-DO' section in the notification section of the app that can make the public aware regarding the problems associated with flooding and how can they keep themselves safe or protected from common waterborne diseases until help arrives.
Finally the app is designed to reduce loss of life to a bare minimum while the rescue opreation is actice. Often people are trapped in hidden or isolated places for a long time and they remain unnoticed by the rescue workers for a long time. To speed up this situation, the app comes with an inbuilt beacon, which when pressed would transmit the victim's coordinates data, along with a few messages that he would like to convey. This signal would then be transmitted with sufficient strength.
Once the SOS receives the AI, it will highlight the victim's coordinate on the map and also using text filters it will search for frequency of words like 'HELP','SAVE','PLEASE' or other distress calls and immediately priortize the rescue sequence.
TECHNOLOGIES USED : NLP(Natural language processing), algorithms,GPS,weather forecast model, manning drones. 

